               About Files
               \u203E\u203E\u203E\u203E\u203E\u203E\u203E\u203E\u203E\u203E\u203E
Most computers have an off-switch, and
when you power these computers down, any
data that was in their memories will be
lost. Electricity has to constantly flow
into computers so they can remember or
compute anything

A convenient way to make programs and
data survive a loss of electrical power
is to save them to 'permanent storage'

Permanent storage is a little slower
than your computer's memory, but it has
the advantage of not needing electricity
to keep your data safe while the power
is out

In the case of the VCE, we use web
browsers' 'local storage' system as our
permanent storage. Local storage writes
onto the physical computer's HDD or SSD

VCE's permanent storage is organize in
terms of 'files', 'folders', and the
'drives' in our 'file system'

A file system works like a virtual
office filing cabinet. The cabinet has
drawers that contain files and folders.
Each drawer in the virtual cabinet
represents a storage device, called a
'drive'. Drives store files and folders
as vast numbers of bytes

Files are a sequence of characters or
bytes that can represent programs, data
files, documents, or any other bit of
data that users want to save into
permanent storage

Folders are containers for files and
other folders. Every file must live in
a folder

Files and folders have names that can
be used to address them when doing file
system operations

Every drive has a built-in 'root folder'
where files and folders can go

Every drive has a number identifier. The
drive for 'local storage' is always
drive #0

So that every ClubCompy user has a place
to save their files, a folder named
after their screen name is created on
drive #0. This folder becomes the
default folder the user sees after login

The Comfy language has keywords whose
primary purpose is to work with files,
folders and the file system:

  %SAVE%     %LOAD%     %FOLDER%   %OPEN%
  %CLOSE%    %READ%     %WRITE%    %SEEK%
  %DELETE%
