     How do I program a computer?
     \006\006\006\006\006\006\006\006\006\006\006\006\006\006\006\006\006\006\006\006\006\006\006\006\006\006\006\006
... and what are computers anyway?

Would you believe the first computers
were not machines at all!? They were
human beings who were renowned for their
ability to perform long series of math
or scientific calculations. The word
'computer' is actually an old word that
means "one who calculates".

In the 1940's, electronic computers
were invented that could automatically
perform a list of instructions called a
'program'. Human authors of these
program instructions came to be known as
'programmers'.

Electronic computers were such a
civilizational advancement that, from
the 1940's onward, computing became less
a human job and more frequently a
machine's job.

At their cores, computers are very
simple-minded and lack any creative
spark like humans have. They can do math
and bookkeeping and graphics and sound
at lightning speed, but they must have
every instruction spelled out with
absolute precision.

Giving bad instructions to a computer
(called 'bugs') usually leads to misery
because the computer is never smart
enough to recover on its own and then
nothing works. As programmers, we must
always strive to rid the world of
useless pain and deliver zero bugs in
our programs for our users.

To simplify precise communication with
computers, we humans have invented
special languages we use to 'speak' with
computers. These special-purpose
languages are not ones you could speak
to people. They are designed for the
computer to easily comprehend and to aid
humans in giving computers the exact
information needed to get work done with
fewer bugs.

Your VCE has a custom, built-in computer
language called %Comfy%. It was designed
to be easy for new computer learners to
pick up and be productive with.

%Comfy% is a reimagining of the classic
BASIC computer language. BASIC was
created by professors and students at
Dartmouth College and then adapted for
home computers by companies you might
recognize, like Microsoft and Apple.

Like BASIC, in %Comfy% you create
programs by feeding in a list of
instructions organized as numbered lines
of text:

\uEB40\uE9BD
1 PRINTLN 'My'
2 PRINTLN 'dog'
3 PRINTLN 'has'
4 PRINTLN 'fleas'

\uEAFE\uE8FE

This program does four things in the
order of the numbers at the front of
each line, going from smallest to
largest.

First, line #1 will display the word
'My' on your screen. Next, line #2 will
display the word 'dog'. Then, line #3
will display the word 'has'. Finally,
line #4 will display 'fleas'.

We like to pretend computers are our
busy workers who are on-the-go. So, we
tell our VCE to perform our program
using the word %RUN%. Important: when
we type %RUN%, we do *not* give it a
line number.

Leaving off the line number is called
"immediate mode" programming which says
to your VCE, "Hey bub, don't store this
line as part of a program, just go do
what it says right away!" Many %Comfy%
words can work in immediate mode, and a
few words like %RUN% can only work in
immediate mode.

So, when we want our computers to get
going, we simply type %RUN%\uF100\uF101\uF102 and
then watch the fun! Run computer, run!
Make my program go and do all the
things on your program list! \216

Every time you write a program at
ClubCompy, type %RUN%, and the computer
does what you expect it to do, YOU
become a programmer! (How cool!)

Shall we try to make a program run right
now? Okay! Grab a pencil and paper and
copy down this program:

\uEB40\uE9BD
  10 SHOW Cursor
  20 PRINT 'What is your name? '
  30 n = GETSTR
  40 PRINT 'Pick number from 0 to 15? '
  50 p = GETSTR
  60 c = TONUM p * 16 + 15
  70 FGCOLOR c
  80 PRINTLN 'Hello programmer ' + n
  90 FGCOLOR 255
  RUN

\uEAFE\uE8FE
Soon, you will type in this program.
At the end of each line of letters,
numbers and symbols, you must press the
\uF100\uF101\uF102 key. \uF100\uF101\uF102 tells your VCE that you are
done with that line and you want it to
add that line to the list of lines that
is your program.

If you type in a line wrong and it
gives you an error, no problem! Type
that same line in again and see if you
can get it to take without errors.
Please ask for help from someone with
typing experience if you are
struggling with it.

HINT: a few of the symbols in the
program require you to hold down the
\uF10D\uF10E key to make that symbol appear. For
example, to make a + symbol, many
keyboards require you to hold down the
\uF10D\uF10E key and then press the '='
key. Let go of the \uF10D\uF10E key when
you're done making 'shifted' characters.

When you type %RUN% and press the
\uF100\uF101\uF102 key, your Compy will perform
the instructions in this program in the
order of the numbers at the start of
each line. Some of these instructions
ask you questions and then wait for you
to type on the keyboard; type in your
answers and press the \uF100\uF101\uF102 key.

Here's the neat part: every program you
write can be run as many times as you'd
like! Just type %RUN%, and you can give
your program different inputs every
time. Can you make it say different
things? The letters change colors at
the end, how does that work? There are
many mysteries like this that you will
uncover and solve over time as you
master the system.

Big programs like games work the same
way: write them one time and you and
your friends can %RUN% them as many
times as you'd like. It is very
satisfying to work hard writing useful
programs and then share them with others
to enjoy.

Hit \uF107\uF108 now to return to the
Compy shell where you can type in your
program.

When you are ready to learn more,
return to this %HELP% program and check
out the %comfy% and %shell% topics.
