               VCE Shell
               \006\006\006\006\006\006\006\006\006

The VCE shell is a text editor that lets
you type-in programs. This topic talks
about how to enter in programs and use
the shell's special key combos to
manipulate the Display as part of.

Scrollback Buffer
\006\006\006\006\006\006\006\006\006\006\006\006\006\006\006\006\006
The shell keeps track of lines it has
PRINT'ed to on the Display. New lines
can be PRINT'ed to the line below the
Cursor's position, and when the Cursor
reaches the bottom of the Display, it
will scroll all lines of the Display up
by 1 line. Lines that scroll off the top
of the Display are not lost. They are
recorded into an internal data structure
called the 'scrollback buffer'

Using keyboard controls and Kid-SCII
escape sequences, the Display can be
be scrolled up and down to scroll saved
lines from the scrollback buffer onto
the Display. This help program uses the
scrollback buffer in this way to show
large documents

The scrollback buffer stores a maximum
of approximately 5000 lines. Once that
limit is reached, the topmost lines will
be deleted from the scrollback buffer
until 5000 or fewer lines are left
